README.md, before:

# django
![](img/django.png)

---

For work with django is required have installed python3

## To create virtual environment (venv)
For create a virtual environment
~~~bash
python3 -m venv NAMEVENV
~~~
Activate venv in linux
~~~bash
source NAMEVENV/bin/activate
~~~
Activate venv in windows
~~~bash
NAMEVENV/Scripts/activate
~~~
For deactivate venv
~~~bash
deactivate
~~~

---

## How pass parameters in the url


---

## To create a project
To install django run
~~~bash
pip install django -U
~~~
To start a project
~~~bash
django-admin startproject NAMEPROJECT .
~~~
## To run a project 
~~~bash
python3 manage.py runserver
~~~
### Commands of django
To see the commands of django
~~~bash
django-admin
~~~

---

## Templates
Presentation of the data in HTML
Make a new folder in the app
- render = receive a request, the template

---

## Application in django
Is a set of code that is responsible of a specific part of the project
start application over a project
~~~bash
manage.py startapp NAME_APPLICATION
~~~
Install an application
- In INSTALLED_APPS in settings.py of the project add NAME_APPLICATION

---

## DB
django uses ORM(Object-Relational Mapping) for make the tables of the db, allow the access and control of a relational db through an abstraction of classes and objects  
Models = part of the projects that structure the tables and the properties
## Create a model user
Run the shell of python
~~~bash
manage.py shell
~~~
import the model user of contrib
~~~bash
from django.contrib.auth.models import User
~~~
create a new user
~~~bash
user = User.objects.create_user(username='Kevin', password='123')
~~~
create a superuser
~~~bash
manage.py createsuperuser
~~~

---

## Middleware
validate a session of an user, and allow modify the object request and response

### Default middlewares
- SecurityMiddleware = check security measures
- SessionMiddleware = validate a session 
- CommonMiddleware = verify debugs and common things of the framework
- CsefViewMiddleware = verify the validation 
- AuthenticationMiddleware = allow access data from all templates
- MessageMiddleware = allow create messages for requests
- XFrameOptionsMiddleware = manage the security

---

## Files that django create:
- init.py = declare the project like a module of python
- settings.py = define configuration of the project
- urls.py = file whit all urls of the project and redirect to the template
- wsgi.py = (web server gateway interface) is the interface of the project when be in production, is a protocol of calls of web server
- manage.py = interface over the project related with the settings of the project
### Variables in settings-py
- BASE_DIR = the path of the project
- SECRET_KEY= for the passwords and sessions of db
- DEBUG = shows that the project is in development (debug mode)
- ALLOWED_HOST = the host that have permissions to interact with the project
- INSTALLED_APPS = applications installed in the project
- MIDDLEWARE = intermediaries in django
- ROOT_URLCONF = define the module of urls
- TEMPLATES = configuration of templates
- WSGI_APPLICATION = file of wsgi
- DATABASES = configuration of the db
- AUTH_PASSWORD_VALIDATORS = validations of passwords
- LANGUAGE_CODE = language of the application
- TIME_ZONE = time zone of the application
- USE_I18N = translate
- USE_L10N = translate
- USE_TZ = timezone library
- STATIC_URL = resolve whit the static file query
## Files created in a application
- __init.py__ (migrations) = record the changes in the db
- admin.py = registers the models in the administrator of django
- apps.py = declare the configuration of the app 
- models.py = define the models of data
- test.py = for test
- views.py = is the responsible of business logic and allow the connection between the template and the models

---

## Commands
To see the commands of the manage and each application
~~~bash
manage.py
~~~
Run the server
~~~bash
manage.py runserver
~~~
shell of python with django
~~~bash
manage.py shell
~~~
django comments
~~~django
{#comments#}
~~~

---

## Production of the project

Django connect the project with any db engine, only have to change the database list in the settings. Django can use multiple db engines, but have to be one for default  
for connect with the db engines use:
- PostgreSQL: 'django.db.backends.postgresql’
- MySQL: 'django.db.backends.mysql’
- SQLite: 'django.db.backends.sqlite3’
- Oracle: 'Django.db.backends.oracle’  

And fill the other fields:
- USER = with the user of the db
- PASSWORD = with the password of the db
- HOST = the path or the host of the db
- PORT = the port used
- ATOMIC_REQUEST = True (optional) = causes all queries to be in one transaction to the database  
### Configure PostgreSQL
Log in in postgres 
~~~bash
sudo su postgres
~~~
Start the shell of postgres
~~~bash
psql
~~~
Create a db
~~~bash
create database DATABASENAME
~~~
Create a user
~~~bash
create user NAMEUSER with password 'PASSWORD';
~~~
Give user permissions on the db
~~~bash
grant all privileges on database DATABASENAME to NAMEUSER;
~~~
close the shell of postgres with
~~~bash
\q
~~~
exit of the session of postgres
~~~bash
exit
~~~

Commit message:

links of the projects of django added

README.md, after:

# django
![django](img/django.png)

---

More projects of django

- [Backend of a carpooling project](https://github.com/Kzarama/Carpooling_django)
- [Copy of instagram](https://github.com/Kzarama/instagram_django)

---

For work with django is required have installed python3

## To create virtual environment (venv)
For create a virtual environment
~~~bash
python3 -m venv NAMEVENV
~~~
Activate venv in linux
~~~bash
source NAMEVENV/bin/activate
~~~
Activate venv in windows
~~~bash
NAMEVENV/Scripts/activate
~~~
For deactivate venv
~~~bash
deactivate
~~~

---

## How pass parameters in the url


---

## To create a project
To install django run
~~~bash
pip install django -U
~~~
To start a project
~~~bash
django-admin startproject NAMEPROJECT .
~~~
## To run a project 
~~~bash
python3 manage.py runserver
~~~
### Commands of django
To see the commands of django
~~~bash
django-admin
~~~

---

## Templates
Presentation of the data in HTML
Make a new folder in the app
- render = receive a request, the template

---

## Application in django
Is a set of code that is responsible of a specific part of the project
start application over a project
~~~bash
manage.py startapp NAME_APPLICATION
~~~
Install an application
- In INSTALLED_APPS in settings.py of the project add NAME_APPLICATION

---

## DB
django uses ORM(Object-Relational Mapping) for make the tables of the db, allow the access and control of a relational db through an abstraction of classes and objects  
Models = part of the projects that structure the tables and the properties
## Create a model user
Run the shell of python
~~~bash
manage.py shell
~~~
import the model user of contrib
~~~bash
from django.contrib.auth.models import User
~~~
create a new user
~~~bash
user = User.objects.create_user(username='Kevin', password='123')
~~~
create a superuser
~~~bash
manage.py createsuperuser
~~~

---

## Middleware
validate a session of an user, and allow modify the object request and response

### Default middlewares
- SecurityMiddleware = check security measures
- SessionMiddleware = validate a session 
- CommonMiddleware = verify debugs and common things of the framework
- CsefViewMiddleware = verify the validation 
- AuthenticationMiddleware = allow access data from all templates
- MessageMiddleware = allow create messages for requests
- XFrameOptionsMiddleware = manage the security

---

## Files that django create:
- init.py = declare the project like a module of python
- settings.py = define configuration of the project
- urls.py = file whit all urls of the project and redirect to the template
- wsgi.py = (web server gateway interface) is the interface of the project when be in production, is a protocol of calls of web server
- manage.py = interface over the project related with the settings of the project
### Variables in settings-py
- BASE_DIR = the path of the project
- SECRET_KEY= for the passwords and sessions of db
- DEBUG = shows that the project is in development (debug mode)
- ALLOWED_HOST = the host that have permissions to interact with the project
- INSTALLED_APPS = applications installed in the project
- MIDDLEWARE = intermediaries in django
- ROOT_URLCONF = define the module of urls
- TEMPLATES = configuration of templates
- WSGI_APPLICATION = file of wsgi
- DATABASES = configuration of the db
- AUTH_PASSWORD_VALIDATORS = validations of passwords
- LANGUAGE_CODE = language of the application
- TIME_ZONE = time zone of the application
- USE_I18N = translate
- USE_L10N = translate
- USE_TZ = timezone library
- STATIC_URL = resolve whit the static file query
## Files created in a application
- __init.py__ (migrations) = record the changes in the db
- admin.py = registers the models in the administrator of django
- apps.py = declare the configuration of the app 
- models.py = define the models of data
- test.py = for test
- views.py = is the responsible of business logic and allow the connection between the template and the models

---

## Commands
To see the commands of the manage and each application
~~~bash
manage.py
~~~
Run the server
~~~bash
manage.py runserver
~~~
shell of python with django
~~~bash
manage.py shell
~~~
django comments
~~~django
{#comments#}
~~~

---

## Production of the project

Django connect the project with any db engine, only have to change the database list in the settings. Django can use multiple db engines, but have to be one for default  
for connect with the db engines use:
- PostgreSQL: 'django.db.backends.postgresql’
- MySQL: 'django.db.backends.mysql’
- SQLite: 'django.db.backends.sqlite3’
- Oracle: 'Django.db.backends.oracle’  

And fill the other fields:
- USER = with the user of the db
- PASSWORD = with the password of the db
- HOST = the path or the host of the db
- PORT = the port used
- ATOMIC_REQUEST = True (optional) = causes all queries to be in one transaction to the database  
### Configure PostgreSQL
Log in in postgres 
~~~bash
sudo su postgres
~~~
Start the shell of postgres
~~~bash
psql
~~~
Create a db
~~~bash
create database DATABASENAME
~~~
Create a user
~~~bash
create user NAMEUSER with password 'PASSWORD';
~~~
Give user permissions on the db
~~~bash
grant all privileges on database DATABASENAME to NAMEUSER;
~~~
close the shell of postgres with
~~~bash
\q
~~~
exit of the session of postgres
~~~bash
exit
~~~
